[Polkadot Wiki Migration] Common Errors (#20)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/application-devs/debugging-errors.md

---
title: Errors and How to Resolve Them

> description: Common errors that are encountered across the runtime, tooling, and block explorers.

Reviewer: Description has 84 characters and should be between 120 and 160

---

Errors in Substrate-based chains are usually accompanied by descriptive messages. However, to read
these messages, a tool parsing the blockchain data needs to request _chain metadata_ from a node.
That metadata explains how to read the messages. One such tool with a built-in parser for chain

> metadata is the [Polkadot-JS Apps UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metadata is the [Polkadot.js Apps UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps){target=\_blank}.
```
Use the correct form of `Polkadot.js`. Check other occurrences

If this page doesn't answer your question, try searching for your problem at the
[Polkadot Knowledge Base](https://support.polkadot.network/){target=\_blank} for more information on troubleshooting
your issue.

## PolkadotJS Apps Explorer

Here's how to find out the detailed error description through Polkadot-JS Apps.

A failed transaction typically looks similar like this:

> ![Error while sending a transaction](/images/applications-devs/errors/01.webp)

Reviewer: Image quality could be better. Is it possible to create it again?

The image displays only the error name as defined in the code, not its error message.

In the [explorer tab](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/explorer){target=\_blank}, find the block in which this failure
occurred. Then, expand the `system.ExtrinsicFailed` frame:

![Error described](/images/applications-devs/errors/02.webp)

Notice how the `details` field contains a human-readable description of the error. Most errors will
have this, if looked up this way.

> [This block](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/explorer/query/0xa10104ed21dfe409c7871a975155766c5dd97e1e2ac7faf3c90f1f8dca89104b){target=\_blank} is a live example of this scenario.

Reviewer: It is not recommended to use `this` for a link. Something like this could be better:

The block [{blockNumber}](URL){target=\_blank} of {networkName} network is a live example of this scenario.

> [This block](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/explorer/query/0xa10104ed21dfe409c7871a975155766c5dd97e1e2ac7faf3c90f1f8dca89104b){target=\_blank} is a live example of this scenario.

Reviewer: Also, the link does not work

> If the error can't be found, or there is no message in the `details` field, consult the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the error can't be found, or there is no message in the `details` field, consult the table in the [Common Errors](#common-errors) section.
```

!!!info "Future Error"

    This error will not cause the transaction to be discarded immediately. Instead, it will be sent to the future queue, where it
    will wait to be executed at the correct place in the nonce sequence or it will get discarded due to
    some other error (ex. the validity period expires).

## Subscan

> The `ExtrinsicFailed` event indicates when a transaction doesn't succeed ([example](https://polkadot.subscan.io/extrinsic/19983878-2?event=19983878-53){target=\_blank}). This event provides the `error` and `index` (as seen in the table of the event, in the `dispatch_error` row) indices of the error but doesn't provide an informative message to understand what it means. The error can be identified in the codebase to understand what went wrong.

Reviewer: Explain what subscan is or at least add a link to it. It is the first time being introduced. 

An example could be added showing the 'error' and 'index', and then a snippet with the source code matching that error

| BadOrigin          | You aren't allowed to do this operation, for example, trying to create a council motion with a non-council account. | Either switch to an account that has the necessary permissions, or check if the operation you're trying to execute is permitted at all (for example, calling `system.setCode` to do a runtime upgrade directly, without voting).                                                                                                                                                                  |
| BadProof           | The transaction's signature seems invalid.                                                                   | It's possible that the node you're connected to is following an obsolete fork - trying again after it catches up usually resolves the issue. To check for bigger problems, inspect the last finalized and current best block of the node you're connected to and compare the values to chain stats exposed by other nodes - are they in sync? If not, try connecting to a different node. |

> | Future             | Transaction nonce too high, as in it's "from the future," **see note below**.                                 | Reduce the nonce to +1 of current nonce. Check current nonce by inspecting the address you're using to send the transaction.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: What note below?

---
title: Errors and How to Resolve Them
description: This page provides an overview of frequently encountered errors and essential tools, like Polkadot.js Apps, to help you identify and resolve common issues.
---

# Troubleshooting Common Errors

> Errors in Substrate-based chains are typically accompanied by descriptive messages. To interpret these messages, tools that parse blockchain data must request _chain metadata_ from a node, which provides the necessary information to decode them. One such tool is the [Polkadot.js Apps UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps){target=\_blank}, which includes a built-in parser for chain metadata that allows error messages to be displayed in a human-readable format.

Author: Also, are we sticking to "Polkadot SDK-based" or also using "Substrate-based?"

Reviewer 2: Ah, I'm out of the loop. It's Polkadot SDK-based now. Thanks!

As an example, consider the following dispatch error:

```js
{
  Module: {
    index: 7
    error: 0x07000000
  }
}
```

You can see that the module index number is `7`, but the error is a hex string that you must convert to a decimal. The first byte, `07`, represents the index of the error. You'll need to convert `0x07` to a decimal, which ends up being `7`. So now you know that `7` is the index of the pallet, and `7` is the index of the error for that pallet in this example.

You can view a list of the runtime's pallets and associated indices in the Polkadot Fellows Runtimes repository in the [`relay/polkadot/src/lib.rs` file](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/main/relay/polkadot/src/lib.rs){target=\_blank}. You'll look in this file for `pub enum Runtime`, which is where you'll see each pallet and its associated index. You'll find that the Staking pallet is at index `7`.

> Now that you know the error occurred in the Staking pallet, you can look at the Staking pallet's code, located in the [`substrate/frame/staking/` directory](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/master/substrate/frame/staking/){target=\_blank} of the Polkadot SDK repository. The errors are defined in the [`substrate/fram/staking/src/pallet/mod.rs` file](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/master/substrate/frame/staking/src/pallet/mod.rs){target=\_blank} for the Staking pallet specifically. If you look for `pub enum Error` and look at the eighth error, which corresponds to the seventh index, you'll see `InsufficientBond`. So, now you know that the error you're seeing is an insufficient bond error being emitted from the Staking pallet.

Author: @eshaben While it's probably fine to reference the codebase directly, you can also opt for a more friendly option of the rust docs, i.e.,: https://docs.rs/pallet-staking/latest/pallet_staking/enum.Error.html#variants

Reviewer 2: I'm not super familiar with the Rust docs, does the convention always follow the pallet_* (insert format name) format? I want to ensure users can easily adapt this guide for errors occurring in different pallets, so I think defining a straightforward way for them to locate the relevant pallet documentation would be helpful
